Piano prodigy Kōsei Arima dominates various music competitions and becomes famous among child musicians, but also controversial. When his mother Saki dies suddenly, he has a mental breakdown while performing at a piano recital; this results in him no longer being able to hear the sound of his piano even though his hearing is otherwise perfectly fine.

Two years later, Kōsei has not touched the piano and views the world in monochrome, without any flair or color. He resigns himself to living out his life with his good friends, Tsubaki Sawabe and Watari Ryōta, until, one day, a girl changes everything. Kaori Miyazono, an audacious, free-spirited, fourteen-year-old violinist whose playing style reflects her manic personality, helps Kōsei return to the music world and shows him that it should be free and mold-breaking unlike the structured and rigid style Kōsei was used to. As she continues to uplift him, he quickly realizes that he loves her, although she already likes Watari.

Later, while performing together, Kaori suddenly collapses after a moving performance and is hospitalised. At first Kaori says that she is anaemic and just needs some routine testing, but this is revealed to be a lie.

Kaori is discharged and back to her happy self, inviting Kōsei to play at a Gala with her. However, Kaori fails to show up on the day of the Gala, and as her health deteriorates, she becomes dejected. Kōsei plays a duet with Nagi Aiza, in the hope of motivating her. After listening to it, Kaori opts for a risky surgery that may kill her if it fails, just so that she can play with him one more time.

While playing in the finals of the Eastern Japan Piano Competition, Kosei sees Kaori's spirit accompanying him and eventually realizes that she has died during the surgery.

After Kaori's death, her parents give her letter to Kōsei at her funeral. The letter reveals that she was aware that she was about to die, so she became more free-spirited, both as a person and in her music, in order to not take her regrets to Heaven. She also reveals that she had been in love with Kōsei since she was five, and was inspired to play the violin so that she could one day play with him. Her supposed feelings towards Watari was a lie, fabricated in order to get closer to Kōsei without hurting Tsubaki, who also has limerent feelings towards Kōsei. After finding this out, Tsubaki confronts Kōsei and tells him that she will be by his side for the rest of her life. Kaori also leaves behind a picture of her as a child coming back from the concert that inspired her, with Kōsei in the background walking back home. Kōsei later frames this picture.